+---------------+
| LINUX         |
+---------------+

@author: mateus levi souza
------- xxxx xx xxx xxxxxx


Kernel (Núcleo)
==========

what is, and what does it do?
The kernel is the special piece of the operating system that controls 
the CPU hardware, allocates memory, accesses data, schedules processes, 
runs the applications, and protects them from each other. 
It is the first program loaded on the computer when the computer starts up. 
The most critical pieces of code in the kernel are loaded into protected 
areas of memory so that they can't be overwritten by other applications running 
in the operating system.

The core of the UNIX system. Loaded at system start up (boot). Memory-resident 
control program.

- Manages the entire resources of the system, presenting them to you and every 
other user as a coherent system. Provides service to user applications such as 
device management, process scheduling, etc.

em poucas palavras, é a matriz de qualquer sistema operacional. Em uma tradução 
literal do termo, kernel significa núcleo, reforçando sua importância no 
gerenciamento de informações e processos.

- O kernel do windows, por exemplo, é o NT ou windows NT -
- É o núcleo ou coração do sistema UNIX.
- Carregado durante a inicialização do sistema (boot).
- Permanece na memória durante todo o funcionamento do sistema.
- Funciona como um programa de controle residente em memória.

Types of Operation System 

- Desktop OS: Microsoft Windows, macOS, Linux such as Ubuntu
- Server OS: Windows server, Linux distributions like CentOS, RHEL
- Mobile OS: iOS, Android
- Embedded OS: Routers, smart TV, auto, home appliance
- Real-time OS (RTOS): used in medical equipment, aerospace
- O shell é um interpretador de comandos

Operating system
==========

An operating system or OS is a software program that enables the 
computer hardware to communicate and operate with the computer software.

O SO é composto pelo kernel e por programas do sistema. O kernel é o 
núcleo do sistema operacional, responsável por funções como gerenciamento 
de processos, memória, drivers de dispositivos de hardware, entre outros. 
Os programas do sistema utilizam as ferramentas fornecidas pelo kernel 
para implementar os serviços necessários, enquanto aplicativos são destinados 
a tarefas específicas do usuário.

A principal distinção entre um sistema operacional e um kernel é se um 
sistema  operacional é apenas um software de sistema que processa os 
recursos do sistema, enquanto um kernel é um componente crítico (software) 
dentro do sistema operacional. O kernel serve como um link entre o software 
e o hardware da plataforma.

An operating system performs these services for applications:
- In a multitasking operating system where multiple programs can be running 
at the same time, the operating system determines which applications should 
run in what order and how much time should be allowed for each application 
before giving another application a turn.
- It manages the sharing of internal memory among multiple applications.
- It handles input and output to and from attached hardware devices, such as 
hard disks, printers, and dial-up ports.
- It sends messages to each application or interactive user (or to a system 
operator) about the status of operation and any errors that may have occurred.
- It can offload the management of what are called batch jobs (for example, 
printing) so that the initiating application is freed from this work.
- On computers that can provide parallel processing, an operating system can 
manage how to divide the program so that it runs on more than one processor at 
a time.

também explora o conceito de memória virtual, que é suportada pelo Linux. 
A memória virtual usa o disco como uma extensão da RAM, permitindo que mais 
memória seja utilizada. Partes da memória são gravadas no disco quando não 
estão em uso e podem ser recuperadas quando necessário.
